In my example of encapsulation we have made a bank account class and made the variables private. Wiwthout doing this someone would be able to go into their account and put in an insane amount of money and obvioulsy thats not allowed. By making it private we are restricting them from doing that while allowing them to still access their bank account but not directly, instead through getters and setters

In my example of Abstraction, we know that are computer can only handle basic simple instructions. Telling it to just perform square root is alot more complicated than it may seem. To us we are just typing out the method provided to us already, but behind the scenes there is a whole lot more happening. There is a whole long code already written to find the square root of a number but python is making it easier for us by showing only what we need to see. 

Inheritance allows you to use all the same functions from one class in another class that is very similar but has some distinct differences. It saves you the hassle of having to manually copy every function into another class. In my example version 1 holds all of the options, and version2 just gives you a title that says here are your options. But since version2 was derived from version1 I can use the option function found in version1 in version 2. 

My polymorphism example is one that involves methods. We have two different types, a triangle and a rectangle, each with the method perimeter. We then cycle through different types of objects performing the perimeter method. Since polymorphism is a thing, it will decide which correct perimeter method to use depending on the type of object being passed in. It saves us work and lets us not worry about which class type each object is 